AST walking styled-components matching a string in template literal

Uses `estree-walker` which relies on Acorn, probably similar with other AST tools
[[ast]]
[[cssinjs]]
[[designsystem]]

```js
const componentName = 'Box'
const match = 'vertical-align';

if (node.type == 'TemplateLiteral') {
	if (parent.tag && parent.tag.type == 'CallExpression') {
		if (parent.tag.arguments[0].name == componentName) {
			const val = node.quasis[0].value.raw;
			if (val.includes(match)) {
				count++;
				console.log(path);
			}
		}
	}
}
```

---

Accessible names and descriptions

Usually straightforward for most elements, but mistakes can block users of assistive technologies.

The calculation for accessible names and descriptions is quite complicated, and can vary slightly between browsers.

>An accessible name is a short string, typically 1 to 3 words, that authors associate with an element to provide users of assistive technologies with a label for the element

It both conveys the purpose of the element and distinguishes it from other elements on the page.

All focusable, interactive elements require an accessible name. Additionally, dialogs and some structural containers (e.g. tables and regions) also require a name.
https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#naming_role_guidance

>An accessible description is also an author-provided string that is rendered by assistive technologies. Authors supply a description when there is a need to associate additional information with an element, such as instructions or format requirements for an input field.

Names and descriptions are presented differently. The former is usually presented before the element type and state, and the latter is presented last, after a slight delay.

The following are possible techniques for providing names/descriptions:

-   Naming:
    -   Naming with child content.
    -   Naming with a string attribute via `aria-label`.
    -   Naming by referencing content with `aria-labelledby`.
    -   Naming form controls with the label element.
    -   Naming fieldsets with the legend element.
    -   Naming tables and figures with captions.
    -   Fallback names derived from titles and placeholders.

-   Describing:
    -   Describing by referencing content with `aria-describedby`.
    -   Describing tables and figures with captions.
    -   Descriptions derived from titles.

---

Accessible naming rules

Heed warnings and test thoroughly - name calculation is complex, so follow guidelines when you can

Prefer visible text - much simpler, prevents bugs, and keeps visual and non-visual UI the same. Visible text is much more apparent, meaning its less likely to go out of date when updating.

Prefer native techniques - rely on `label`, `caption`, etc. While less flexible, they're more reliant

Avoid browser fallback - don't use browser fallbacks for accessible names such as `title` and `placeholder`. Both offer low quality accessible names.

Compose brief, useful names - long or unclear names make a UI very difficult for non-visual uses

---

Composing effective and user-friendly accessible names

The quality of accessible names is super important for usability. Names without enough information reduce effectiveness while names that are too long reduce efficiency. Names that are hard to understand reduce both!

Convey function or purpose, not form - 'Close' is better than 'X'

Most important words first - Usually means a verb is the first word for actions, 'Edit John Doe' is better than 'John Doe, edit'.

Be concise - 1-3 words is usually sufficient

Do not include a WAI-ARIA role name in the accessible name - screen readers already convey role information separately

Unique names for elements unless they are identical - similar to [[20211206102038-aria-landmark-regions#^cf4667]]

---