# Promises

A promise is in one of three states: **pending**, **fulfilled**, or **rejected**.
A promise has two 'fates': **resolved** or **unresolved**.
A promise is _settled_ if it's either fulfilled or rejected.

## Creating a promise
```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  someAsynchronousWork((result, error) => {
    if (error) {
	  // This will call .catch
      reject(error);
      return;
    }
    
    // This will call .then
    resolve(result);
  });
});
```

### Chaining

Promises are chained with `.catch`, `.then`, and `.finally`.
Each of these return its own promise, which can then subsequently be chained.

`.then` does accept two arguments, `onFulfilled` and `onRejected`. It's called when a promise is _resolved_.

```javascript
prom1.then(successCallback).catch(failureCallback);
/* very similar to prom1.then(successCallback, failureCallback); */
```

A `.catch` is essentially a `.then`, without the `onFulfilled` argument. It's called when a promise is _rejected_.

`.catch` should always be used somewhere in the chain to handle errors. As this also returns a promise, it's possible to `.then` a `.catch` block. If you want to skip from one `.catch` to another, avoiding any `.then`s in between, you can re-throw an error.
    Not having any `.catch` chain will mean you have to deal with `Unhandled promise rejection` errors.

`.finally` will always run once the promise is settled, regardless of it being fulfilled or rejected. This is handy for cleanup and other tasks which you want to always run.

### Promise methods

`Promise.resolve` and `Promise.reject` both exist to return a resolved and rejected promise with a value, respectively.

### Returning

The next link in the chain will receive the return value of the previous, as each return their own promise with data inside. If you want to pass data from one `.then` to another, make sure to `return` the value explicitly, not just use it.

```js
doSomething()
  .then(function (result) {
	// This has to be returned for `doThirdThing` to have `newResult`
    return doSomethingElse(result);
  })
  .then(function (newResult) {
    return doThirdThing(newResult);
  })
  .then(function (finalResult) {
    console.log(`Got the final result: ${finalResult}`);
  })
  .catch(failureCallback);
```
### .then anti-pattern

It's generally better to use a `.then` with a `.catch` to handle resolved and rejected promises respectively, as it's easier to parse than two argument `.then`s. It also allows you to have one area to catch all errors, regardless of which handler prompted them.
When using only a `.then`, if the `onFulfilled` function errors, it won't be caught by the `onRejected` in the same `.then`.

## Async/Await

These are syntactic sugar for promises, and mainly exist to make code more readable. As soon as `async` is added to a function, it will always return a Promise.
Note that using the `async` keyword doesn't magically make things happen off the main thread. Async functions can still block the main thread if they're not actually async.

```js
async function addNums(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

// Is the same as...
function addNums(a, b) {
  return new Promise((resolve) => {
    resolve(a + b);
  });
}
```

```js
// This code...
async function pingEndpoint(endpoint) {
  const response = await fetch(endpoint);
  return response.status;
}

// ...is equivalent to this:
function pingEndpoint(endpoint) {
  return fetch(endpoint)
    .then((response) => {
      return response.status;
    });
}
```

https://www.joshwcomeau.com/javascript/promises/
https://github.com/domenic/promises-unwrapping/blob/master/docs/states-and-fates.md

[[20210927102602-js-event-loop]]

[[js]]