# Intrinsic sizes in CSS

The intrinsic size (as oppose to the extrinsic size) of an element is a size **based on the content** of an element. Inline elements are sized intrinsically, properties like `width` have no effect on them.

`min-content`, `max-content`, and `fit-content` are keywords used to size the width (and/or height) of an element based on its intrinsic size.

**min-content**
> The smallest size a box could take that doesn’t lead to overflow that could be avoided by choosing a larger size.

Written in another way, it's the width of the widest content in that element.
This is most obvious with text, where the element will be as wide as the longest word. It aims to take all soft wrap opportunities - e.g. hyphens, spaces, etc. Spots where you'd expect text to break naturally.

**max-content**
> A box’s “ideal” size in a given axis when given infinite available space. Usually this is the smallest size the box could take in that axis while still fitting around its contents, i.e. minimizing unfilled space while avoiding overflow.

Sort of the opposite of min-content, where the box will be as wide as it needs to be without wrapping/overflowing content. Remember that it's based on the content, so `max-content` can easily be narrower than `auto` (which expands as much space as possible).
Note that this can still be less than 100% width, depending on soft wrap opportunities.

**fit-content**
> If the available space in a given axis is definite, equal to clamp(min-content size, stretch-fit size, max-content size) (i.e. max(min-content size, min(max-content size, stretch-fit size))). When sizing under a min-content constraint, equal to the min-content size. Otherwise, equal to the max-content size in that axis. 

Probably the most confusing one. There is both a `fit-content` keyword, and a `fit-content()` function used in [[cssgrid]].
It takes up the space it can, but never less than the `min-content`, and never more than the `max-content`.
```css
fit-content = min(max-content, max(min-content, fill-available))
```

https://www.w3.org/TR/css-sizing-3/#auto-box-sizes
https://css-tricks.com/almanac/properties/w/width/#aa-keyword-values

[[css]]
[[cssgrid]]
[[intrinsiclayout]]
[[layout]]
[[responsivedesign]]