# NPM overrides

Similar to [[yarn]]'s 'resolutions'.

Overrides provide a way to replace a package in your dependency tree with another version, or another package entirely. These changes can be scoped as specific or as vague as desired.

**Note, only the root package.json can use `overrides`.**

To make sure the package `foo` is always installed as version `1.0.0` no matter what version your dependencies rely on:

```json
{
  "overrides": {
    "foo": "1.0.0"
  }
}
```

It's possible to override child dependencies as well. This will cause `foo` to always be `1.0.0` while also making `bar` at any depth beyond `foo` also `1.0.0`:

```json
{
  "overrides": {
    "foo": {
	  // . sets the root package version
      ".": "1.0.0",
      "bar": "1.0.0"
    }
  }
}
```

If you have a direct dependency already, you must set an override as a reference to that dependency by prefixing with `$`. It's not possible to have a direct dependency and an override with different versions.

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "foo": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "overrides": {
    // BAD, will throw an EOVERRIDE error
    // "foo": "^2.0.0"
    // GOOD, specs match so override is allowed
    // "foo": "^1.0.0"
    // BEST, the override is defined as a reference to the dependency
    "foo": "$foo",
    // the referenced package does not need to match the overridden one
    "bar": "$foo"
  }
}
```

---

For example, if `awesome-typescript-loader` uses an older version of `typescript` and you want to use a newer version:

```javascript
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "typescript": "~4.6.2",
    "awesome-typescript-loader": "^5.2.1",
    ...
  },
  "overrides": {
    "awesome-typescript-loader": {
      "typescript": "$typescript"
    }
  }
}
```

If you don't use `typescript` as a direct dependency, you can choose the version explicitly in the `overrides` section.

---

From anecdotal experience, `overrides` are a little buggy. I've noticed two issues:
1. Sometimes the `$` alias doesn't work. The best workaround I've found is to use an explicit version, and then re-apply the `$` alias after an initial install.
2. Writing to the package-lock is inconsistent. The lockfile only consistently updates when there are no `node_modules` nor `package-lock.json` file. Even in this state, the override is not written to every problematic package, leading to an inconsistent package-lock. https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/4232
	1. Fixing this issue means blowing away the package-lock, which leads to other consequences.

Weirdly, it seems that `overrides` apply last, even after the lockfile. This means that subsequent `npm install`s will work, but if you need to generate a leaner package.json, you may run into errors. e.g. with [[nx]]

Overall they seem useful, albeit slightly inconsistent.

https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json#overrides

[[npm]]