# Web metrics/core web vitals

Web metrics are a way of measuring [[performance]] for websites. Different metrics are useful for different things, and some are more important for certain use cases than others. Tools like Lighthouse and Calibre are used to measure them.

Some are based on interactivity, others are based on painting. Different parts of the [[rendering]] cycle.

## First Contentful Paint (FCP)
measures the time from when the page starts loading to when any part of the page's content is rendered on the screen.

## Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)
measures the time from when the page starts loading to when the largest text block or image element is rendered on the screen.

## First Input Delay (FID)
measures the time from when a user first interacts with your site (when they click a link, tap a button, or use a custom, JavaScript-powered control) to the time when the browser is actually able to respond to that interaction.
	*Note, this is being replaced by INP in March 2024*

## Interaction to Next Paint (INP)
measures the latency of every tap, click, or keyboard interaction made with the page, and—based on the number of interactions—selects the worst interaction latency of the page (or close to the highest) as a single, representative value to describe a page's overall responsiveness.

## Time to Interactive (TTI)
measures the time from when the page starts loading to when it's visually rendered, its initial scripts (if any) have loaded, and it's capable of reliably responding to user input quickly.

## Total Blocking Time (TBT)
measures the total amount of time between FCP and TTI where the main thread was blocked for long enough to prevent input responsiveness.

## Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)
measures the cumulative score of all unexpected layout shifts that occur between when the page starts loading and when its lifecycle state changes to hidden.

## Time to First Byte (TTFB)
measures the time it takes for the network to respond to a user request with the first byte of a resource.

[[browsers]]
[[web]]