# Radix's asChild prop, and other styling APIs

Radix uses an `asChild` prop, which is a similar vein to styled-components' `as` prop. It's intended to be a better API to encompass the functionality of `as`.

Allows you to attach a components functionality to a different DOM element. Essentially the parent calls  `cloneElement(children)` with any relevant props. This gives you more control of the child element while retaining the polymorphism. For example, you can pass explicit props to the child element, unlike `as`. 

[[20221017052110-react-element-vs-component]]

```jsx
<Dialog.Root>
  <Dialog.Trigger asChild>
	<Button foo="bar">Open dialog</Button>
  </Dialog.Trigger>
  <Dialog.Content>...</Dialog.Content>
</Dialog.Root>
```

Some implementations of `as` get around this by passing through any props to the parent back to the child component. This brings up new issues, especially around prop naming clashes.

Both `as` and `asChild` require an intermediate component, which may or may not be a big issue. It's important that this intermediate component spreads the props it receives from the parent. In the above example, `Button` internally should spread the props received from `Dialog.Trigger`.

A [[20221205104221-render-props-pattern]] API also exists in this space, which  `reakit` also offers. This gives you the most customisation by allowing the user to use props as needed. For example, you can inspect the props to apply a conditional class, or pass the props to a different prop on the child component.

```jsx
<MenuItem>
  {(props) => {
    const className = "data-active-item" in props ? "bg-blue" : "";
    return <div {...props} className={className} />;
  }}
</MenuItem>
```

Optionally, the implementation could merge any props passed to the parent component. Achieving type safety here may be difficult.

All in all, render props and `as`/`asChild` solve similar but different problems.

[[designsystem]]
[[react]]
[[reactapi]]
[[styledcomponents]]